('t', 'The sea stacks of the\xa0Farne Islands\xa0are home to up to 55,000\xa0pairs of puffins, easy to identify during breeding season by their brightly coloured beaks and matching feet. The best time to visit is from April to late July, while seal pups can be seen from October to mid-December.')
('t', 'In Wild Isles we watch puffins battle with greedy gulls trying to steal their hard-earned sand eels. It has becoming increasingly difficult for puffins to catch these tiny eels because a combination of overfishing and the climate crisis is driving eels farther north. The segment is followed by a clip of Attenborough up close with the puffins on\xa0Skomer Island, a mile off the Pembrokeshire coast, which is also a great site for spotting puffins, Manx shearwaters and more.')
('q', 'This is the world’s apex marine predator breeding in our waters – there is not a more powerful creature in the oceans')
('s', 'Orcas, Shetland')
('t', 'Wild Isles opens with a stunning sequence of crashing waves around the island of Muckle Flugga, one of the most northerly points in the British Isles. The lighthouse shown was actually designed by Robert Louis Stevenson’s father and uncle, Thomas and David Stevenson, in 1854.')
('t', 'In episode one, the orca are captured communicating then sneaking up in silence on an unsuspecting seal. The killer whales arrive in Shetland reliably each spring to feed, but naturally, you can’t guarantee a sighting. The crew of Wild Isles filmed this sequence over three years, with 250 local people helping them track orca along the coastline.')
('t', '“This is the world’s apex marine predator breeding in our waters,” says producer and director Nicholas Gates. “There is not a more powerful or more feared creature in the oceans.”')
('s', 'Ancient oaks, Oxfordshire')
('t', 'Attenborough’s narration highlights that only 13% of Britain as a whole is covered by trees, one of the lowest proportions in Europe – but England does have more ancient oak trees than the rest of Europe combined. Three-quarters of those ancient oaks are more than 500 years old, with the oldest being a 1050-year-old tree in the grounds of\xa0Blenheim Palace\xa0in Oxfordshire.')
('s', 'White-tailed eagles, Islay')
('t', 'The standout sequence from Wild Isles shows two white-tailed eagles, a species reintroduced to Scotland as recently as the 1980s, hunting a barnacle goose in mid-air. These geese travel to Islay, off the west coast of Scotland, each autumn to munch on the grass.')
('t', '“This behaviour is very, very new,” says Gates. “We’ve got this species back and now we’re seeing these lost behaviours coming back, too. That’s a conservation success story.”')
('t', 'The white-tailed eagles were filmed at\xa0RSPB Loch Gruinart\xa0on Islay, though the island of Mull, farther north, is better known for white-tailed eagles. There is a regular ferry from Kennacraig to Islay, where there are also world-class whisky distilleries including Lagavulin and Laphroaig.')
('s', 'Kingfishers: Rivers Stour, Avon and Frome')
('t', 'Attenborough describes Britain’s crystal-clear chalks streams as “one of the rarest habitats on Earth”. There are about 200 in the world, most of which run through southern England. Beneath the surface live various breeds of salmon and trout, plus minnows, the favoured snack of the kingfisher. These electric blue and orange birds fly fast, at up to 25mph, over the surface of the rivers. Their long beaks – a third of their body length – allow kingfishers to enter the water silently, without alerting prey – a design borrowed to silence the\xa0Japanese bullet train. The Rivers Stour, Avon and Frome feature in Wild Isles, but kingfishers are widespread in Britain.')
